# openapi
OpenApi package for Bone Framework
## installation
Use Composer
```
composer require delboy1978uk/open-api
```
## setup
Simply add to the `config/packages.php`
```php
<?php

// use statements here
use Bone\OpenApi\OpenApi\OpenApiPackage;

return [
    'packages' => [
        // packages here...,
        OpenApiPackage::class,
    ],
    // ...
];
```
Create a config array entry/file. You can add a (client_credentials) client so the docs page can authorize and test your 
endpoints.
```php
<?php

return [
    'docs' => 'data/docs/api.json',
    'swaggerClient' => [
        'clientId' => '',
        'clientSecret' => '',
    ],
];

```
Run booty to deploy the front end assets.
```
vendor/bin/bone assets:deploy
```
If you do not have an npm project yet, you can simply run 
```
vendor/bin/bone docs:setup
```
which will create a package.json and typespec config file, as well as the `spec` folder and files for your API 
definitions, including definitions from vendor packages. 

If you already have a pacakage.json, then your files will be left untouched. You should add the following to your 
`package.json`
```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "@typespec/compiler": "^1.5.0",
    "@typespec/http": "^1.5.0",
    "@typespec/openapi3": "^1.5.0",
    "@typespec/rest": "^0.75.0",
    "@typespec/versioning": "^0.75.0"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "docs": "tsp compile ./spec"
  }
}
```
Now you can run `vendor/bin/bone docs:setup`. 

### vendor package API definitions
Vendor packages can also provide API definitions. These are loaded in to the `vendor.tsp` files in the `spec` folder.
These files are autogenerated and ashould not be edited. 

To update the vendor definitions, run 
```
vendor/bin/bone docs:vendor-update
```
## compiling open api docs
To create the OpenApi definition file, we compile the docs using the following command (be it npm, pnpm, or yarn)
```
pnpm run docs
```
Now you can head to `/api/docs` to view your API documentation. 😃 Click on the `Authorize` button, your client ID and 
secret should already be populated, so click Authorize again, and you are ready to start calling your endpoints!
